Thank you very much everyone, thank you. Thank you for coming, as I said. Welcome everyone.
Again, we are going to do our beautiful Samye Ling retreat for two weeks.
This is one of the very, again, beautiful occasions and making for using our time, our disparate
time, for very good purposes.
There are so many things to do in life. Everything is important, one after another.
But deepening our spiritual or inner value, inner calling, the nature of our own beings is one of
the most important.
According to Buddhism, this is the most important because it will last.
Whatever we do in the world, everything won't stay as you want it or as it is. It's always changing
and shifting.
When we leave this world or when we leave this world, also everything is behind.
No matter how much you are accomplishing in the world in the world, whatever you do, everything
will happen.
And when we leave, according to Buddhism, but I say to you, you all know this, this will go where
we develop with our nature of the mind.
Mind is always complaining or complaining with us, but not body, not speech.
Mind goes with us. Whatever we develop with mind, that goes together.
And that is the spiritual or the Dharma practice, touching to our own best.
Love, kindness, compassion, joy and appreciation, exploring that goodness as much as we can do.
That much, it will shine and benefit in this very lifetime when we are having difficulty troubles.
But that is not ended. That will continue to go in life, up to life according to the teachings.
So today we came here, using all our beautiful, beautiful, important precious activities that we
have to do.
You left the world on the side and came here to do practice of all the breath deep in our
connection to the Dharma.
That means Dharma means what actually? Dharma means our own goodness.
Dharma is not something that object outside we are trying to overload ourselves.
We knew carefully what is Dharma. Dharma is nothing but love and kindness, compassion, joy and
relax, calm and peaceful.
Calm and peaceful our body, calm and peaceful our mind, calm and peaceful our energy. Relax.
And what reflects the beauty of the world then? Not just it's become the miserable politic.
What do you often hear in the very unachieving, even in my unachieving, samsara is a nirvana.
There is no difference. Reality helps. Why they say that?
Because when you really click the nature of our own goodness of the inner mind, the nirvana or the
bhulin is right here.
It's not something that we are lacking of that or shortage of that.
Everyone really did that. And where did they do that? They are not coming from outside.
According to what I am teaching, according to all those great masters who actually had the
realization,
everyone said, "Drew inwardly." They were loving the nature of the mind to reword that.
Dispel the headiness, the obstacles. You are not allowing to see the goodness of our nature of the
mind
and the goodness of the worldly phenomenon. This is obscuret. That is the end. Obscuretions.
Obscuretions are also not created by someone in our Lord to us. It's one's own creation.
According to the greatest teaching, bodhaka kamalu. It is all our correctness.
And what we have to do? Clean. Nobody also will come to clean that and purify that.
That's what nobody can do. What the greatest teacher, bodhaka kamalu said,
"I showed you the technique. I showed you the technique. Not sure. I was sure. I showed you the
technique. Now is your time to put that in action." And bodhaka kamalu, bodhaka kamalu,
did a long time ago to us. Their love and kindness compared to us. For all living beings,
it's just like this. Really, the teaching said, "They always love as their own only child."
The Buddha's love, the Buddha's compassion. "I'm going to pay my son's love and compassion."
All the whole enlightenment, love and compassion, caring and concerning thought to us is the same
as their own child. We are like the kids. So they will do long time ago if they can.
But they cannot do it because it's one's own craziness. One's own mess that we have to clean up
by ourselves. Ourself. So therefore, the greatest teacher, bodhaka kamalu said, "I showed you the
path. I showed you the path. Now is your turn to put that in action." If you like to work to clean
and make better, you should do it. If you don't care too much, then don't do it. Yes. That's all
it is. If you do it and you work hard with joy, so joy and appreciation, courage and commitment,
your effort, truly enlightenment is right here. It's not just shared and owned and kind of reserved
by certain Gurus. It's open filled. Nature is with us all the time. But today we came here to
explore
that qualities, that goodness. And we already did. I mean it's not something that you'd come just
today,
but we're already starting that. Today we're deepening that qualities. Reactivating that qualities,
goodness. Restarting that qualities. Bring more beauty and shine of that qualities. That is the
meaning, the purpose of the retreats. That is what really reaches. So bring to do that. Bring calm
and peaceful. Relax. This place is of course, there's many beautiful retreat centers in the
world, in this country. Parpe Masamil, where we are, is one of the beautiful retreat centers
in this atmosphere, where this is part of the world. Truly it is. All the qualities, indications,
whatever the history, if you read the books, what they say, it has all this. What is missing here?
The great master material, material, the future Buddha what Ashenka said in his teachings,
what is the perfect qualification of the retreat center? He said excellent places,
excellent companions, excellent comedians, and excellent assistants, I think. Maybe I'm missing
one of those. Excellent land, excellent place, excellent places, excellent land, excellent places,
excellent comedians, excellent companions, companions, and excellent facilities, I think that's it.
Those are the really call it of the the the the hermitage. Perfect call it the hermitage.
Excellent places means, the place there is not going to create the disturbance, particularly
related to Vivekananda elements, such as like sicknesses, disease, and all that. That is so,
is perfect places, perfect places. There is no harmony, also there's disturbance, well can easy,
cannot come, cannot come easily. So that is called excellent places. Excellent land or the area
means that there is also not so many disturbance of the of the such as in the daytime robbery or
the nighttime robberies or the wild animals and so forth. It's also very excellent land.
And excellent convenience, there is always a possibility available. If you need some help
and assistance, it's always help, help a lady and help us. An excellent companion means the same
same practice, same people that who share the similar philosophy, similar with similar caring
thoughts, caring thought, okay caring and practice. So they have similar kind of view, similar
conduct,
similar idea, similar thought, so there's no conflict in the back and forth, like I think that
that is similar. And then excellent also convenience, generally kind of peaceful
convenience or beautiful places. Beautiful places, in the days nothing kind of during the daytime,
there's a lot of noise in the days, in the nighttime also calm and peaceful, peaceful.
So those are the really great master, right there I said, the qualification of the retreat land.
So this is the perfect location of the retreat, one of the best of the retreat locations,
this is old facility, modern facility, everything really common. So when we're thinking of those
things ancient times, hermitage is not everything as what we have now. And all that convenience is
easy. So now since everything, and then teaching the practice, you all made so many great masters,
received teachings, one after another, really today you came here to reactivate it and re-glorify
that some really belonging that things. So these old teachings, which is that really put in action,
which is wonderful, beautiful. This is one of the, as I said, beautiful moment in our lives
that we're using very, this very precious time for beautiful, really purpose, beautiful reasons.
So those are the what it is. Then the other thing of the Buddha teaching, generally all teachings,
there's the Buddha give what we need in enlightenment at 35 and until 82 or 81. One,
He gave a lot of honorary teachings, and those teachings are sometimes named as 84,000 teachings.
84,000 teachings can be summarized in the 12 excellent teachings. 12 excellent teaching can
be summarized into three basket of teachings, three basket or they know some of them, they know
some
teachings. These three basket of teaching is then what is the meaning of this or what is
those three basket, of course many of you already know that. But three basket of teaching is known
as
Vinaya teaching, Sutra teaching and Abhidhamma teachings. So in generally all that teaching,
the 84,000 teachings, all teachings of the 12 excellent teachings, or another way kind of
according to the Jnana level, level nine Jnana teachings, all that can be summarized in these
three basket teachings, everything in the three basket of teachings. Why is named three basket?
Because Vinaya teaching is not just one single teaching, it is group of teaching. So this,
that means that the Vinaya as the basket for that whole variety richness of the teaching, group of
written teachings. Therefore, it is named or manifold basket of teachings, which hold so many
precious jewels, gems of the structures, hold as like basket, like sasmi board or trail box,
trail box. So Vinaya then said with Sutra and Abhidhamma, these three, three of them.
And what are the principles, contents and meaning of these three basket teachings?
The essence of the, Vinaya teaching is moralities, congruence, ethics, essence,
essence of that teaching. And what are the essence teachings of the Sutra?
That Sutra teaching essence is teachings on the concentrations, meditation,
meditation and concentrations. One of the teachings on the Abhidhamma essence of the Abhidhamma
teaching, it's teaching, it's known as wisdom teachers, teachings on the westerns. What that
means the wisdom, and that's bring exactly understanding of the subject and objects,
all relative truth, absolute truth, exactly as it is. Not highest stated, no lower stated,
but just the way things are, as it is, on the relative level and the absolute level, in the
both levels, exactly as it is. That is the wisdom teachings, wisdom teachings. And Vinaya teaching
is also not just the only congruent, congruent teaching, it combines all that three basket
teaching too. Vinaya has Vinaya teachings, Vinaya has Sutra teaching or concentration teaching,
Vinaya has the wisdom teachings, and Sutra has also the morality, ethics teachings,
Sutra has the meditation teachings, Sutra has the wisdom teachings. Abhidhamma has same thing,
it has also congruent teachings, ethics teachings, and meditation teachings, and wisdom teachings.
It is, just each of those are really like, as I said, three boxes, all goodness. What it does,
all those teachings, it brings gentle, peaceful, our body, our speech, our mind, calm and peaceful,
relaxed, body is relaxing, energy or the speech is wind is relaxing, and mind is relaxing. When is
relaxing, what is happening? It is bringing the deep, the call to true nature as it shines,
as it is, without understood by the mundane constructions and the duality publications.
It's exactly that it began to shine. That is really the meaning of all these teachings.
That's what the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakta Munna, gave all those teachings. Among those
teachings, during this retreat, what we propose, of course, we all know, is teachings on the Vayay
ana
teaching. Vayayana teaching is also in the within, as I said, three basket teachings, Vinaya, Abhid
ha,
Sutra, Abhidhamma. On the other word, it is morality teaching, and meditation teaching,
and wisdom teachings. It is, it's not just that Vinaya teaching is all left out, all concentrated
teaching left out, or it's the only Vayayana teaching or the wisdom teaching. No, it's all combined
.
The target is to our, bring our nature of the mind, bring on the nature of the, our way of the
body is, nature of our speech is to your head is, to bring that up. It's not, not covered by,
by the publication in the duality. Therefore, Vinayana teaching contains all that teaching.
It has Vinaya teaching, it has Sutra teaching, it has Abhidhamma teaching.
That's how the beauty of the teachings, all teachings are aligned up with Buddha's teaching.
The dear one is teaching, and just before Mahaparin, all lined up to discover our goodness,
our nature. Nature of the mind, nature of the phenomena, or nature of the subject
and logic, exactly as it is, as it is. So this time is teaching on the Vayayana's.
Vayayana teaching, of course, you all know, is considering one of the most powerful
skill, means teachings. "Buddha ever give," correct teacher, "Buddha Chapter many ever give is soul
spirit." Why is it targeted to the right part of the enlightenment? Not just the partial
enlightenment,
full circle enlightenment. Enlightenment of the related truth, enlightenment of the absolute
truth. All enlightenment of subject, enlightenment of object. Not just the only one there is.
This full bloom teachings of the true nature, as it is, or the enlightenment. The enlightenment
is not again somewhere else. Enlightenment is with us, with you, with me, with you all,
to reveal that qualities, that nature to the inner Vayayana teachings. Any Vayayana teaching
also has a many variety of teachings, as you all know, out of tathara and at the other teachings.
But this time we're going to focus, I mean not just focus, our teaching is best upon the inner
and other teachings. Another teaching is what really distinction between, again,
the outer tathara and at the other, just a really simple literature, simple literature
tell. Outer tathara is, is bolder to save, actually, to get enlightenment. But outer tathara
has more external activities to approach or to discover the absolute enlightenment nature,
or the our enlightenment nature. And in the inner tathara we're going direct to that nature,
more target, the book to the bold's eyes. Otherwise, all teachings are the same,
to get the true nature, as I said earlier, and you all know that. So this time is inner
tathara's teachings. It's less kind of like external activity, direct to the enlightenment.
Inner Tathara teaching also has three different inner tathas. Those are Mahayoga, Anayoga, and
Atayoga, as you all know. And again, they are nothing completely different from each other.
What then doki teaching said, Mahayoga is the foundation, Anayoga is path, and Atayoga is
result. Anayoga is foundation tathara, Anayoga is path tathara, and Atayoga is result tatharas.
So they are the ground of foundation, path, and result. Don't know if the goal ever used,
the ground of foundation, foundation, and application, and achievement.
Atayoga is an achievement, result. So those are all on it. And this time is the essence of the
teachings of the three inner tathas. Mahayoga, Anayoga, Atayoga, and Atayoga, as we will focus.
Red-witted higher girdwai and veggie vahras. And higher girdwai and veggie vahras, among the five
dhyana buddha, is the pima family. Five dhyana buddha have five dhyana buddhas, and veggie
buddha family, veggie family, renna family, pima family, karma family. That, I think basically,
you all know that. We all know that. Higher girdwai is the principal family of the pima family,
ob-bhema family. This is the pima family teachings. This is the sukdha-bhi. I have higher girdwai,
and veggie vahras, the pima family, is Amitabha's family. All of us are family. And we are pima s
ambha
family. Same. Our local church already is a family. Thar are families. And so it's the same.
They are all in the pima family group. Even though they are, again, these five families are not
completely different from each other. It only highlights the principle of the quality of
nature, of the way things are. The nature of the way things are.
On the ultimate level, these five families, why? Those are five wisdom. Five wisdom, dharmadha
wisdom, and mental wisdom, and economic wisdom, and discrimination, or distinct awareness,
distinct understanding, awareness of wisdom, and all accomplished wisdom.
These are the five wisdom. That is the nature of our mind.
That is the nature of our consciousness, your natural mind, and our nature of our mind.
Nature of our mind. But these Buddhas are represent of those different aspects of the
nature of the qualities. Colleges, so pima family, is represented more distinctively,
distinctively understanding everything, the exact way things are, that awareness of wisdom. All
some rather translate discrimination, awareness of wisdom. And the thought can't be this,
discrimination, awareness, when I'm thinking more, and a little bit more kind of talking,
that it's not something you discriminate against. I want that, I don't want that. It's not
discriminate. Just see things, I think, like this is. I mean, you know Niki better. It's not
discrimination. So that is the pima family. Pima family is one of the leading families.
That means pima family is one of the most borrowed family that connects to the practitioner,
and brings enlightenment within these large towns. That is according to Vajrayana Buddhism. It is
true.
And for example, in Vajrayana Buddhism, everyone talks about abhadakti, talks about Amitabhas,
talks about Gurubhema sambal. That's how powerful, how powerful, how banish, banish into the heart
of the enlightenment, the brain, the realization. That means removing obstacles, diseases,
handiness, and then obscurations, and re-reverting that nature. So today, or this week, we are
going
to connect the concentrator to this practice. We are really trying to make this more meaningful,
more simple, and bring more joy and appreciation. And we are talking with both each other.
According
to Buddha's teaching, all those great masters, the lineage of practical masters, said everything is
the best of both each other. We are doing this literally, not just only for ourselves, but to
bring joy and peace happen. But really, what we are doing together, made this brain joy and peace
happen. It's to the world. And the kind of great shine, the wisdom or discrimination, or the
distinct understanding, knowledge, the wisdom shine. So everybody respects each other. Everybody
knows
the value and the importance and the preciousness of the everyone's life. Peace, respect, and
effort. So therefore, calm, peace, and no more violence. Really, we should act. And that is our
practice. Generating practice is all best on both each other. One way to turn, reaching both
each other, actualizing both each other. Not just only the journey of a sudden practice. Wishing
both
each other for three times and three of them. That is just reminding. Our practice is, we have to
do
always, really. And this journey is received also. Really, we can make everything what I do. May I
benefit, perhaps, all living beings. That may also include ourselves, our families. Not just
all living beings, only for someone and not include us. Buddha teaching is what is called
in teaching. It's a win-win situation. Benefiting to yourselves, benefiting from all the things.
With love, kindness, compassion, respect, and effort here, and a peaceful atmosphere.
And that is what the Buddha teaching is. Really. So therefore, bring up those old,
beautiful, intelligent, motivation, and make that this retreat, a sibling retreat,
energetic retreat. It's really, that's wonderful. Dedicated, that merits. Those old
Buddha's Gita, the great master, the great master, they give to all us through all those tools.
Tools, both each other. And meditation, and dedication, aspirations. All those. So that is
my brief talk today. And thank again for coming here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everyone.
Thank you, thank you. Good to see you again, second. And meditation. And then tomorrow,
of course, we'll do the empowerment, the involvement of the higher giver and the
Pradhyavarahi empowerment. And so then we go over to sadhana's teachings. And so that's the day.
In this afternoon, we're going to pipe with the bed. Something is really good, but of course,
So you all know that this...